# Datacenter fa19-516-164

## E.Datacenter.2.b : Tahoe Reno 1

Tahoe Reno 1 is the first datacenter owned by the company Switch in Reno, Nevada. This datacenter is located in the Tahoe Reno Industrial Center in a 2,000 acre campus known as the Citadel Campus. This data center was built in the year 2017. Since January 1, 2016, Switch decided to run its data centers on 100% renewable energy. This practise was even implemented with the Tahoe Reno 1.
The data center itself occupies a space of 7.2 million square feet and runs on a 650,000 kW power which is generated at a price of $0.040 per kWh. Moving the servers to the Switch campus at the Tahoe Reno Industrial Center cost a one time investment of $550,000. The annual cost for maintaining these servers and renting the server space is $125,000. Up till the year 2015, Switch would contribute to the greenhouse gas emissions with a CO2 emission of 110460 metric tons which is about 121761 tons in 2015. From 2016, since Switch decided to use renewable sources of energy, there were no CO2 emissions from Switch data centers. Therefore Tahoe Reno 1 that was built in 2017, does not contribute to any CO2 emissions.

### References:
1)https://baxtel.com/data-center/switch-reno-campus-the-citadel/news/city-of-reno-s-data-servers-will-be-moved-to-switch-campus-next-year

2)https://www.switch.com/switch-tahoe-reno-data-center-now-open/

3)https://www.switch.com/sustainability/ 

## E.Datacenter.3 : Carbon Footprint

My carbon footprint is 15625 lbs of CO2 

## E.Datacenter.4 : Recyclers

Generally, the heat generated from data centers range between 80 and 115 degrees Fahrenheit. This heat which is wasted should be recycled in order to conserve energy. There are a few ways in which this can be done. Heat generated from data centers can be diverted to nearby homes and businesses, thereby utilizing the waste as a source of energy and providing heat during colder temperatures.
Recycling the heat generated has benefits. It contributes to energy conservation. The amount of money spent in order to reduce the amount of heat generated can be used in other areas of the data center in order to make it function better.

### References:
1)https://lifelinedatacenters.com/data-center/heat-generated-by-data-centers-can-recycled/

## E.Datacenter.5 : Iceland

Iceland has probably set a record in the modern era. This is due to its use of only renewable sources of energy mainly hydro and geothermal for generating electricity. Iceland uses a district heating system that uses geothermal energy in order to generate heat. This heat generated satisfies 87% of the demand for hot water. 81% of the energy generated in Iceland for electricity, heat and transportation is generated from hydro and geothermal energy.
Apart from providing energy for itself, Iceland also plans to use renewable sources of energy in order to provide electricity to the British Isles in what people say is an ambitious “$2 billion project” that proposes to provide Britain’s energy market with 5 TWh of Iceland’s renewable electricity.

### References:
1)https://reneweconomy.com.au/iceland-a-100-renewables-example-in-the-modern-era-56428/ 

## E.Datacenter.6 : Data Center Rack Cooling

Data Center Rack Cooling is done using a Rear-door Heat Exchanger. A Rear-door Heat Exchanger is a passive device which has no moving parts. It optimizes energy efficiency in a data center. It does not use electricity from the infrastructure in order to operate and is able to eliminate the chiller energy depending on the climate. This device has a simple installation and operation. Moreover it requires low maintenance. Rear-door Heat Exchangers are placed in the airflow outlet of a data center server rack. The heat generated by the data center is forced through this device by the use of server fans. This heat is passed through a cooling tower in order to exchange the hot air with circulating water. This reduces the temperature of the server rack.

### References:
1)https://datacenters.lbl.gov/sites/all/files/rdhx-doe-femp.pdf 

## E.Datacenter.8 : 

Google suffered a catastrophic cloud outage on June 2, 2019. This outage was caused due to a change in the configuration that was intended for a small group of servers of a particular region but ended up being applied to a large number of servers in that region and the neighboring regions. This cloud outage disrupted google services for about four and a half hours. Applications like Youtube, Gmail, Snapchat and Vimeo were affected due to the networking issues caused by this outage. Even the “Google Cloud Platform Services” such as App Engine, Bigquery, etc. were affected by this incident.
Benjamin Treynor Sloss, the VP of engineering at Google apologized to the customers for this outage. He said that rectifying the damages caused by this outage took a lot more time than the company had anticipated. He also stated that this outage, which affected 1% of a billion people that use Gmail, resulted in a 10% reduction in Youtube traffic and a 30% reduction in the Google Cloud Storage traffic. 

### References:
1)https://www.zdnet.com/article/google-details-catastrophic-cloud-outage-events-promises-to-do-better-next-time/ 